Our topic is rate limiting.
You might be familiar with this concept when it comes
to web applications where in order to
ensure that surge of users does not take down an application,
there are controls typically at the edge of the network, perhaps on routers,
etc, to limit the number of users that can
simultaneously use or access a website or an application.
The same concept applies in smart contracts.
Rate limiting controls the frequency at
which a contract operation such as a function call,
can occur, and the general reason this is done is to
minimize loss such as rapid drainage of funds.
By implementing rate limiting,
you can be assured that any actions that are being taken against your contract
are occurring in a very controlled manner and not subject to attack.
The best way to implement rate limiting is as
a function modifier that accepts a time parameter,
and that time parameter corresponds to the delay
that you want to enforce between calls of your function.
So for example, if you want to have a delay of 30 seconds between function calls,
then your time parameter would be 30 seconds.
By making this rate limiting design pattern as a function modifier,
you make it so it's very flexible and can be used throughout
your smart contract or smart contracts in a very easy manner.
The pattern goes as follows;
you first initialize a variable,
let's call that enabled,
to the current time.
Now keep in mind that in a smart contract,
the keyword now or blockchain.timestamp,
either of them can give you the current time.
You want to be careful about using it because it is
possible for a minor to manipulate that time.
But that's a different topic.
So you initially start off by creating this variable, next,
you check that the time of call in
the modifier is greater than whatever you've set the enabled time to be,
next, you increment the enabled variable by the time parameter in the modifier.
So for example, if you are saying that
your function should only be called every 30 seconds,
that's what you would increment the enabled variable by.
Finally, you use that modifier in all rate limiting functions.
In general, what it does is
increment the global variable to make sure that every time it's called,
the new time that it can be called,
corresponds to the current time,
plus whatever the Delta time is that you would like.
So that's the general pattern behind it.
Now, let's do an exercise on rate limiting.